Speaker 1: Hello, good evening. Yeah, good evening. So, thank you very much for joining for the session, actually. Yeah. So we're gonna uh browse the browse the website and search for the usability experience issues like I have mentioned before, yeah, I've mentioned it before actually. So like I have mentioned uh some uh personal stuff of yours in the person, so it's not deep deep into that. Let's straight away navigate to the website.
Speaker 2: Okay, that's it. Okay. Okay. Speaker 1: So, that's uh Yeah, I believe. So, yeah, that's the home page. So, how's the opinion, how's the expression? Speaker 2: Okay. Yeah, okay. The first thing I notice is it's the text is actually too small. And I didn't I couldn't like find exactly what what are these and yeah, they are jobs. And uh the way they have presented it is actually it's not very pleasant actually. I can't even see the see what's going on and actually the first thing which got my attention was this banners because they are the text on that those things are too large, larger than these, actually what I wanted to see. Uh that's the actually the first thing I notice and the second thing is there are too much things going on. Uh it's not inviting at all. Uh the text color as well. It's hard to it's hard on the eyes and I don't see a particular order here as well. I may yeah, I can see they have mentioned the recent 100 jobs. I don't know which is I know this is the first one, but I don't know the how the order goes like horizontally or vertically. Speaker 1: Yeah, they they the order isn't order is not really complicated. It's like even I can't get an idea what about what's the recent most recent post that they have uploaded. Speaker 2: Okay. Speaker 1: Yeah, so like it's okay, like the segment is bad, the segment is bad, the sectors is bad. So, like shall we like straight away there are few options that we can perform. So like shall we uh maybe like search something that uh sector that you're interested in. Speaker 2: Yeah, where should I Yeah, I thought it would be here on the top somewhere. Speaker 1: Ah, okay. Yeah. Actually, it's a left corner. Like are you searching the category or? Speaker 2: Yeah. Speaker 1: Are you searching for a particular job? That's also not also clear. That's once that's on top of the category list. Speaker 2: I think they have given Yeah, keywords they have given. Speaker 1: Yeah. Let's just let's just let let's just type yeah. So let's search for something that you're interested in. Speaker 2: Okay, so I'm Yeah, I'm actually interested in business analyst field. Uh Did I I just type something wrong because I don't see any recommendation. I go through I think Google recommendation. Speaker 1: No, actually they don't recommend anything. They don't suggest the keyword. You just got to type the exact right keyword and then hit the search bar. That's actually really bad. Speaker 2: Ah, yeah. That's really inconvenient. So I expected for for a website like this to cuz I can't actually I can search from the exact word, no, cuz Yeah. I have the idea, but Yeah, I expected them to Speaker 1: Shall we search keyword? Maybe Yeah. Yeah, so shall I search for it? Speaker 1: Yeah, hit the search bar. That's also really smooth. Speaker 2: Oh that's there. Yeah, okay. So, yeah, I get this presentation. I think actually this presentation is better than the home page. Speaker 1: Yeah, that that linear layout presentation is better than the grid format. Speaker 2: Yeah, I this is the format I expected from on the homepage, but again the uh data is uh I can't read it. That's the problem. Speaker 1: Oh my God. The font is too small, yeah. Speaker 2: The font is the problem and again what I see on the list is the location given. Speaker 1: Shall we try to try to filter you like there are any filter options like can you try to filter? Speaker 2: I only wanted to see I like I'm interested in the Colombo area. Speaker 1: So, are they giving that option or? Speaker 2: Yeah, I uh Okay, so here they haven't mentioned it. Is it somewhere else? Speaker 1: No, actually they don't give give the option to try filter by location. So, you just got to uh search by the keyword and then figure it out from the town column. That's it. Speaker 2: Like I have to go through like each and every Yeah, that's it. Yeah, that's it. Yeah. Speaker 1: Yeah, yeah. Speaker 2: Yeah, that's To find town. Location actually I want to Yeah, I don't want to waste my time on that actually. Speaker 1: Yeah, yeah. That's there. So, that's so much usability experience issues that just in the homepage. Speaker 2: So, how how can I uh do you know how can I search from the from the category? I don't see that here. Speaker 1: You just got to click you just got to find the right category from the left category sector and then click that. Speaker 2: Ah this one, no. Okay. Speaker 1: Okay. So, so like uh in the business business analyst field, are there any finance, Speaker 2: Yeah, I think they haven't I think they have mentioned the most important category. I can I go like is this a full list or I can search for the category? Speaker 1: Yeah, no, that's it. That's it. They don't give the option to search a category is I guess you can't like there the category job category that specific to your field is also not there in the category list. Speaker 2: Yeah, right. Yeah, I don't see the business analyst field. Speaker 1: Yeah, that's also not there I think. Speaker 2: I mean, even if it's there, I can't even I can't read it properly. Speaker 1: You just have to go one by one. Speaker 2: Yeah, okay, okay, I understand. Speaker 1: So, let's navigate back then. Speaker 2: Okay, so Speaker 1: The navigation button is also not working. So, just you just got to click the top jobs icon again. The navigation is not clear there. Speaker 2: Oh, okay. So, I don't have a home button. Where is Uh okay, okay, I see that. Speaker 1: In the below. Speaker 2: Okay. So, I don't have a home button. Where is uh okay, okay, I see that now. Speaker 1: The icon is also also clickable. Speaker 2: Clickable. Oh, okay, okay, okay. They they haven't mentioned like it's not very clear. Anyways, that's good. Speaker 1: Okay, that's the issue. That's it for the homepage. I guess, shall we like try to there's a page called top employers. Navigate to the top employers page. Speaker 2: Okay, I see that. Yeah, they they have given me a bunch of bunch of pictures I guess. I think maybe if I scroll down. No. So I can't identify I can identify some some some employees like when I see the logo I know it, but I can't I don't get any details here. Speaker 1: Yeah, I guess uh like can you try to find some companies? You actually can't can you search a particular company there? Speaker 2: No. So I don't actually see a search bar. Yeah, that's it. Speaker 1: Yeah, that's no search bar there. Also, I guess uh there is they don't show the name of the company. You just got to click you have to click one by one on the company logo. That's actually clickable. Speaker 2: Ah, okay. So it's clickable. Okay, okay. Like the top drops, I can it's uh Speaker 1: Yeah, that's also they they they doesn't give a clear idea about the navigation. So click it, let's click it. Speaker 2: Okay. I'm presented with this. I think I can't see where are the vacancies. Speaker 1: So I guess can you scroll down? Speaker 2: Okay. Uh still don't see. Okay. Open I I saw open vacancies uh again this text is very small. Currently they are. Okay. They have said no open vacancies. Speaker 1: There are no I think they should mention it on the top at least. Speaker 2: I had to go all the way down. Speaker 1: They're wasting time. So much like they don't give any visible. Speaker 2: Yeah, yeah. They haven't given me any details about I thought they would give me this digital details. This and this. Speaker 1: Actually, they don't give it the company details as well as they don't give the availability of vacancies in the first page, So. Speaker 2: Yeah, that's I think that's the most important thing, no. So I'm looking for a vacancy and. Speaker 1: There are no any view all buttons or anything any indications. So, let's navigate back then. Speaker 2: Okay. I can go back from that. Okay. Speaker 1: Can you like find a particular company like filter by category or something? Speaker 2: I can't filter. Okay. There are options to filter by industry. Speaker 1: It's also too small. Like again there are Speaker 2: I can't see. Yeah. I didn't notice. Speaker 1: It's filtered too small. Yeah, okay. It's fine. Like I guess uh can you find any companies that uh any companies that you're interested in? That you know that you're familiar with? Speaker 2: Okay. I'm in because I'm going from the business and like analysis field. I know KPMG. Shall I go Okay. So navigate navigate to the click it. Speaker 1: Yeah. Speaker 2: Okay. Okay, yeah. I again I think the text size has become even smaller. Speaker 1: The text size is getting smaller and smaller to the page when we're navigating to the pages. Speaker 2: Yeah, I don't see the see the reason for this huge should there be any information here or something Speaker 1: No, that's it. Actually, that's it. They they're wrong with my browser. No, no, no. Actually that's it that's the UI that's the UI that's how they show. That's really outdated and like unprofessional. Speaker 2: UI is not Yeah, I think they they could have used this space to make the at least make the text bigger and. Speaker 1: Yeah, yeah. That's true. So, let's navigate back. It's fine. Speaker 2: Okay. To the home page. Speaker 1: Yeah, let's navigate to the home page. They could have actually mentioned the availability of job vacancies by actually give an indication. Speaker 2: Yeah, they haven't mentioned that. Speaker 1: Yeah. Uh let's now shall we try to registration? Can you find the registration link? User registration? Speaker 2: So, I see maybe It's actually in the right corner. Next next to the banner space available banner space uh face left to it. Ah, okay, okay, okay. This plus icon. Oh, yeah, I see it. No they haven't mentioned like sign up or login. Speaker 1: Yeah. The button is also very unclear. Speaker 2: Yeah, I can I when I hung like hover up over it, I can see the sign in. Speaker 1: Just click it. Speaker 2: Yeah, okay. Speaker 1: So, this is the registration page. Let's just try to uh fill some sample for sample data. Speaker 2: I let me enter my email. So I think then the password. Speaker 1: Oh, yeah, like they they asked for confirm email. Speaker 2: Yeah, they have asked to confirm. Speaker 1: That's really inconvenient. That's. Speaker 2: Yeah, that's really unusual actually. I've let me copy. Speaker 1: That's something that they have usually asked in the in past days. Like they don't do it nowadays. That's really outdated. So like can you type password? Speaker 2: I see the I see the reason behind password and confirm password, but I don't see the reason why. Yeah. Let me get to the password. Speaker 1: Okay, insert the password. Maybe I think I Is there an option to see the password? Speaker 1: No, actually there's no option to see the password. You just got to make sure you inserted the correct password exactly and copy it to the other. Speaker 2: Yeah, that I I wouldn't copy it actually. If I typed it wrong, I can't even see the password. Speaker 1: Yeah, that's also there. So they should they should have. Speaker 2: That's a basic thing I expected from like seeing the password. It's essential. No. I have to log in again. Speaker 1: So and let's just move on. They they have asked to like a bunch of these things. Secret questions. Speaker 2: Secret questions. That Okay. Ah, okay. If you forget the password. Speaker 1: I guess that's for the security purposes. Actually, that's very outdated. In nowadays usually I don't do it. Speaker 2: Yeah, that's yeah, cuz I'm going to forget about this. Obviously, I have to write it somewhere or something. I thought they would they they would uh like an automatic like email verification or something. Speaker 1: Yeah, it's really outdated. Yeah, that's. Speaker 2: Yeah. Oh, yeah. Speaker 1: You actually you have created an account, right? Uh let's just move back to the homepage and then uh try to find the login page. Okay, let's navigate to the login page. Speaker 2: Oh, I believe it's the right next to It's not clear. It seems like a logout button. Speaker 1: Yeah, it seems like a logout button. Logout button. That looks exactly like logout. Let's let's just go there. Speaker 2: Okay. Okay. I'm presented with this. Speaker 1: So, how's the opinion on this page? Speaker 2: Yeah, the first thing I get I notice is this big white space and again I don't want to mention it again and again, but the text size is very small. They could have used this like I think this whole background and maybe like use a bigger text size. It looks very unprofessional. I don't I don't feel like I'm at the correct top jobs website. Speaker 1: They haven't even centered the form. Speaker 2: Yeah, they yeah, that's the that's the main issue. I don't know. Speaker 1: And the design is also yeah, the design is also so outdated. Let's let's just sign in and sign sign in from the Google. Ah, that's also there. Speaker 2: Okay. Yeah, so sign up now. Speaker 1: They don't like mention actually like already have an account text. They they they should they should add the but they haven't mentioned it. Sign in with Google. So to log in. Speaker 2: Okay, this one, right? Yeah. Speaker 1: Yeah, yeah. Speaker 2: Okay, wait. Okay, what's this? I'm Speaker 1: I guess this holds the homepage. Speaker 2: No, actually they they are they are supposed to land you on the homepage at first, but they are landing in. I don't know whatever the page is. So like let's just try to go back. Speaker 1: Okay. I thought actually this was the homepage. No. Let's just navigate back to the top jobs. Click the top jobs icon and navigate to the homepage. Okay. And then. Speaker 2: Yeah. Yeah, okay. This is the home page. Speaker 1: Yeah. So like can you find the profile page? Speaker 2: Okay, profile here. I believe it should be Oh, okay. This is it. This one. Speaker 1: Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's it. Actually, they could have at least profile they should add the profile word to the top bar. Speaker 2: Yeah, I that's what I'm used to like. It should be on the top now like on like as a profile. Speaker 1: Yeah, exactly. And let's just move it to profile. Speaker 2: They have a top down list, which is again very small text. Speaker 1: You have to click my profile. My profile. Speaker 2: My profile. Okay. Speaker 1: So, how's this page? So, what's going on here? Yeah. Speaker 2: My CV document. I I don't get any do I get any option to like type my name and Speaker 1: Actually, they don't give any options to like uh change your change your name, show your name or anything. Speaker 2: I can manually sign in like previously they have asked the name, but Oh, no, right. They only have asked the email. Speaker 1: Yeah. Profile details aren't visible. Speaker 2: Where should I put my name and yeah, other things. Speaker 1: Actually, it's not there. You have to again navigate to the there's a link called create my profile below a red color text. Speaker 2: Oh, okay, okay, I see. Again the the issue is the text are small, so I can't I can see, but I can't recognize it. Like I see all this white big white space. Speaker 1: Yeah. Let's just navigate to the create my profile. Speaker 2: Yeah, okay. Okay. Speaker 1: I guess this page you're supposed to uh set up your profile. So, how's the opinion on this? Speaker 2: Yeah, again, so many things going on. I it's like too much stuff in the in at one place. And yeah, I am supposed to Am I supposed to give last name and other name like how can I know it's necessary. Speaker 1: Actually, they don't actually they aren't giving any clear idea about the required fields. Speaker 2: I don't know like social network ID I don't have. Mobile I don't know what are the Speaker 1: I guess there are some options to navigate back and filter profile options I guess uh professional experience to set up and all. Speaker 2: Yeah. So, So what should I do now? Speaker 1: Uh that's that's also really uh too complicated, right? Speaker 2: Yeah, I I I can't actually figure it out. I can uh fill this out. Speaker 1: Like uh you mentioned the email or can you find a place to change your mail or something? Speaker 2: No, I actually I can't. Speaker 1: Yeah. Password. Speaker 2: Yeah, there are too many information here. Speaker 1: Too many information. Also, we we can't even find the place to change the mail or username or phone number or anything. Speaker 2: Yeah. Speaker 1: I you just have to go one by one from the categories. Speaker 2: Ah, okay, okay, I understand. Speaker 1: So, that's I guess like I mentioned. So, I noted down many user experiences issues that you have mentioned. So, thank you very much for joining with the session. I really appreciate it. Thank you very much. Speaker 2: Okay, thank you for having me. Okay, thank you. Speaker 1: Good to see you. Good night. Speaker 2: Bye.